Let's start then with an introduction to Amazon CloudWatch.
The most visible feature of CloudWatch and the feature that
most people use first is CloudWatch Metrics.
CloudWatch allows you collect metrics from AWS deployed resources,
as well as on‑premises systems with the use of a CloudWatch agent.
We can get up to 1 second of visibility of metrics
and log data inside CloudWatch.
Now that's really granular.
It means we can see a level of detail in our metrics and logs that
might not be visible in other monitoring solutions.
Once we've collected metric and log information,
we can then automate actions based on that information.
We can set predefined thresholds for our metrics and then generate
responses when those thresholds are breached.
We can also integrate CloudWatch with machine learning.
So based on past metrics and performance data,
we can make predictions as to what resource levels we need in the future.
By monitoring your AWS deployed resources,
as well as your on‑premises servers using CloudWatch,
this should help us reduce the mean time to detect and the
mean time to resolution for problems.
CloudWatch is massively feature rich.
We start by collecting data.
We collect metrics and we collect logs that are reliably stored.
And by collecting this data and the use of features like
Dashboards and Application Insights,
we can monitor the performance of our AWS deployed resources.
We can then act on the information we've gathered either
manually or ideally through automation with CloudWatch
Alarms and CloudWatch events.
If you want the ability to work with historical data,
then CloudWatch has got that covered too.
We can keep CloudWatch data long term, then using tools like Log Analytics,
contribute insights and custom metric operations.
We can have detailed analysis of our data to help answer business questions.
Security is at the heart of everything we do in AWS,
so CloudWatch integrates with IAM to provide access control,
and we can encrypt all data in CloudWatch to protect our data at rest.
One of the key components that runs in CloudWatch is CloudWatch Logs.
We can use CloudWatch to centralize all our logs from all our systems.
These include AWS deployed resources, applications we install on compute,
like EC2 and the Elastic Container Service,
as well as collecting custom log information from
your on‑premise service as well.
Any logs that we store in CloudWatch can be stored indefinitely,
so we have a huge collection of historical data that we can draw upon.
And the log service is pretty feature rich.
The log service includes a custom query language used to query log groups to
help us search for specific error codes or patterns of data.
And we can take all that data we've logged and visualize it in
CloudWatch Dashboards or in third‑party visualization tools.
When working with logs in Amazon CloudWatch,
fundamentally, we're collecting log events.
A log event is a record of activity.
These records of activity come with a timestamp and a message.
The message is the piece of logged information that we're interested in.
Log events are grouped together into log streams.
These streams are a sequence of log events that share the same source,
so the same CloudTrail trail, the same Lambda function,
or in the case of VPC Flow Logs, the same network interface.
Log streams are grouped together into log groups.
A log group, for example,
could represent all the individual flows captured by
neighboring VPC Flow Logs on a VPC.
Log data itself is extremely useful,
but one powerful feature of logs is the ability to
convert log data into metric data points.
Once we convert log data into metric data points,
we can use these to trigger alarms that in turn can start on old series of
automated events in response to that specific logged event.
Now we're in full control of the retention settings for our logs.
The default for logs is that they'll be stored indefinitely.
But if you do want to set retention settings,
you can set retention settings from 1 day to 10 years.
Globomantics has some specific requirements.
They wish to automatically respond to change in demand for their
customer‑facing stateless app hosted on EC2.
They expect this application to scale out and scale in
based on demand for the application.
They also wish to log information about custom access to the
application hosted on those EC2 machines.
And finally,
Globomantics wishes to search through historical API activity as a way of
auditing administrative access to the AWS accounts.
So the question is, can CloudWatch help?
And the answer is yes.
To help Globomantics, we could recommend introducing CloudWatch Alarms.
Alarms will allow Globomantics to measure a metric that can be used for
scale‑out and scale‑in events for their EC2‑hosted application.
They could also deploy the CloudWatch agent to those EC2 machines to
gather custom login information from their applications,
allowing them to track user activity on their app.
They could also implement CloudTrail login.
CloudTrail is the administrative auditing service inside AWS
and as the ability to log to CloudWatch.
This will allow them to search through historical
administrative actions against their accounts.
So now I spoke a little bit about what CloudWatch can offer us, let's jump into a demonstration.